NSG: Jake. Anything you wanted to lead off with before I pull up the slide deck. The the purpose of today is to. I'm gonna cover, like Vc relations and negotiations. We also have another subject called Financial Fundamentals, that we've already exposed you all to in some extent, and we will be sure to cover in full. David will brand covers part of it. We have another partner that helps out with some of the subject matter about like terms, and
NSG: all the different types of financial instruments that you can consider for Vc. And we'll make sure that you all are strong there, too. But right now it felt most appropriate with Jake's time, and given our conversation last night for us to talk about this subject next. So that's kind of it, Jake. Any preamble or anything like that.
Jake Gutstein: No, but I would just say like, Tap me
NSG: Cool. You're you're you're gonna start chiming in right away. Because I think what I have to say here is
NSG: the collective knowledge that we have at techstars across Mds and programs and accelerators. So what we've kind of done here. And there's a couple of people on the call from the core techstars team who helped put this together. Ming, Ming and Titian are here. They worked so hard to get all of the disparate information all over the world from all these techstars, programs, and experts and founders.
Ankur Toshniwal: Thank you, appreciate it.
NSG: Yup, there's encore so what's up, man? And so this is no, you're fine. This is a collection of that wisdom. So some of it is gonna make perfect sense and be universally true. A lot of it is going to be subject to your interpretation. And I'm I'm really glad that we have Jake here, and then maybe a few others of you who have experience raising capital before that might be able to weigh in on different perspectives as I walk through it and kind of talk you through it in my perspective.
NSG: So like, I said. The second deck, the financial fundamentals. One we'll get into as well. But for this time I think this is the most appropriate one to to get into, to prep you guys for month 3 and demo day.
NSG: So as you know, warm introductions are essential. There are. There is a growing trend right now of some Vcs being very forward, looking and being open to the cold outreach, and wanting you to submit on their websites. But warm and hot are still King tried and true, there's no question. Here. Go ahead, Jake.
Jake Gutstein: Ye? Yeah, it's almost like a 1st challenge to show that you're you've you care enough to source the call. And so it's like, if it comes from somebody else, you know that they've done more diligence than just like having AI generate an email and send it directly to them.
NSG: Yeah, and then. But so to build on that, though, Jake, like, what's the difference between warm and hot?
NSG: Right? So so like, there's warm, which is like, you know, I get the the we have this thing called friend raising, which we'd like to talk about. But I'm also curious to know you know how you feel about like what would qualify something as even like better than that.
Jake Gutstein: I mean a port code that's on track. To return. The fund is like, if you get that person to enter you to the people that invested in them. Or
Jake Gutstein: who's helped the P like, think about the most qualified. I've actually done exactly what is needed
Jake Gutstein: for this person. And so it's like going to be the best possible situation. Then a portfolio company underneath it, so like somebody who's but like who you know enough to know that would be a good connection, so is performing like pretty well.
Jake Gutstein: I would say, like a warm introduction, then it would be, and then, like warm introductions, then become like lps in the funds. Other investors, people that you know, who are willing to rep for you, who may be connected to this person, but aren't directly one to one
Jake Gutstein: haven't directly one to one benefited them, or like
Jake Gutstein: performed in the role that they're right.
NSG: So if I'm hearing you like like. So let's just say you're looking for a warm introduction. And this is a very clear like pathway that founders find success in from techsars. When you're looking at a Vc. You want to talk to, you can look at their portfolio and you identify companies, and some of those companies might have connections to techsars, founders
NSG: of the ones that have connections to Techstar's founders or not.
NSG: It's also valuable to discern which ones are thriving. Which ones are on track to like, Jake said. Return the fund because the founders that have businesses that are even stronger to that to that. Vc, they're gonna take those even more seriously.
NSG: Right? So there's 1 layer of seriousness which is like, if I've invested in, you already have an inherent trust. Another layer of it is that I've invested in you, and you're doing great, and you're recommending another founder to me even better.
NSG: So that. Does that track, Jake? Did I get that right.
Jake Gutstein: Yeah. And it's like one of your friends is not a company that is necessarily performed in the portfolio, but you know them. And so you know.
NSG: Right.
Jake Gutstein: That can still be like there's nuance in it. But as you know, the person less you're gonna have to settle for those proxies.
NSG: Word.
NSG: cool? So yeah, we talk about, you know, friend, raising, which is this idea of you know using, you know your network to
NSG: essentially work your way up to it right and and and get warmed up you all know this. We've talked about it through and through. But I wanted to, you know, pull this up regardless to make sure we had this clear. You all were in alignment, and
NSG: you also took the
NSG: the feedback that we said early on in the program. So for those of you that decided to actually take some investor meetings and calls, I'm curious like, did you end up having any conversations where you're signaling a conversation for after demo day or after techstars?
NSG: Has anyone had that experience.
Ankur Toshniwal: Yep.
Ankur Toshniwal: Is there any particular question you have about that, though.
NSG: Yeah, like, how did it go? I'm I'm curious to know, like what it was like having those conversations, and and whether those are scheduled, or what the next steps are, would love for you to share that encore.
Ankur Toshniwal: yeah, actually, it's something that we act honestly have questions about, too. So yeah, like, there's there's 1
Ankur Toshniwal: There's 1 fund that there's actually a couple that reached out one actually
Ankur Toshniwal: earlier on actually a previous like 2048 is pretty pretty well known. I think their alum is a the Alex is actually a techstars alum, and he actually.
NSG: He just he just invested and led the round for Rhonda.
Ankur Toshniwal: Sick. Yeah. So he he reached out and then we he, kinda
Ankur Toshniwal: I think they tried the product or
Ankur Toshniwal: this. They said they talked internally, said, They'll we'll we'll catch up post tech stars right? And so they just did that themselves. I told them, Hey, like I saw you guys use it
Ankur Toshniwal: product. We know that certain things didn't work. I would love to like fix those things for you. We care mostly about you guys as users more than investors and you know, kind of been left. At that
Ankur Toshniwal: another one reached out called,
Ankur Toshniwal: it's called Sorensen. Capital.
Ankur Toshniwal: and yeah, the investor Meta set the kickoff and
Ankur Toshniwal: putting us in touch with the partner and then is, now
Ankur Toshniwal: I'm I. We're trying to be pretty explicit about saying, Hey, we're not currently fundraising, we know, like, I don't want to say like, Hey, we know our business isn't yet investable without. I don't want to say that because I feel like that makes it seems like we
Ankur Toshniwal: don't think our company is investable. It's just. We know that we're not going to be hot shit right now when we come in. So we were very, very much, very, very clear. I'm trying to be very clear about that. It's like we are not fundraising.
Ankur Toshniwal: We are just trying to build relationships. We're trying to understand how you guys think through investing. And we also honestly can help a lot of port coast. That's what we have gotten some feedback for is from private equity firms and Vcs is like, Hey, your product looks like it could be useful to some of our port goes. So we're like, that's the angle that we're taking here. And we're not trying to raise and
Ankur Toshniwal: basically if could be.
Andrew Fernandes: Potential.
Ankur Toshniwal: Triple win case right win win of. You can help your port Co. Your port Co. Can vouch for how good it is, how good a product it is. And you know, then we are looking to raise kind of thing. So that's I think, the new direction or something we're we're we're trying to navigate a little bit right now.
NSG: Okay, Andrew, you want to chime in.
Andrew Fernandes: Yeah. So through our network, through my network one of our school alumni who's in our fraternity a lot older than us works in an operating role at a private equity company.
Andrew Fernandes: So I reached out to him, said, We have this. Does this look like it fits in your portfolio companies, obviously not an investor call and just just basically through some ideas out. And then he got back to me a week later. For selling basically potential usage Portfolio Company. And we've used this same approach with Vcs, we're starting to do it more now approach it as
Andrew Fernandes: can we help your portfolio companies? But it's also building a relationship for investors down the road.
NSG: Perfect. And then, Meg, I saw you unmuted. I don't know if you want to add anything.
Meg Hall: Nothing to add right now.
Meg Hall: Sorry it was my my like. My speaker jumped over to a kid.
NSG: All good, all good. No worries at all. Yeah. Cool. Great. So I just want to emphasize this. If you have not done this yet. And you're feeling good about where you're at at least enough to cast a signal to potential investor that you'd want to have a conversation post program.
NSG: Now's a good time. I highly recommend it. It's lower stakes. It allows you to knock off the rust of talking about your business to outside parties, and then it is you know one. We have the whole sacrificial pancake thing which you've heard me, you know, talk about to no end at this point. But 2, it demonstrates confidence.
NSG: Right? You're saying, basically, Hey, investor? Look, I'm in progress right now. I'm in techstars. But I I would love to have a conversation with you afterwards, because I'm really excited about this direction, and I want to have a you know, an honest conversation about what it would take for my company to be fundable and for you to have an interest in investing down the road. That's a very easy conversation to have Meg.
Meg Hall: Yeah. There's 1 investor that I'm supposed to be meeting with tonight. That
NSG: Did did Matt cut out, or is that me.
Chloe Lannert: No, Meg, your audio. We're running good day issues.
NSG: No, I want to know. We want to hear what you said, though, that's really good.
NSG: Okay, sorry. Yeah. So tonight I'm supposed to be meeting this guy who's judging the panel for that event tonight. And he is. His name's John, and I have been intro to him twice now one from his business partner, and he and he's already kind of given the approval that he wants to meet with me because he's heard the business pitch.
Meg Hall: Not from me, but through a 3rd party, and then also my current investor has had lunch with him and and intro to me to him. So he knows about me, and he's we've been trying to get connected with each other for like
Meg Hall: 3 months. And now, finally, he's like he's gonna be at this event. And I'm like, that's fine. I'll just buy this ticket, because, like, at least, I can get in there with him. So yeah, so I I think that's a good meeting that's supposed to be happening tonight. So but I I like, yeah, we're gonna be fundraising. I don't really have like, I need to flush out that whole story definitely before I go there tonight.
NSG: Good. Alright, yeah. Well, you got it, and I'm sure you can confer with somebody here to get some help to prep. Need be
NSG: so
NSG: before you reach out for intros. There's a few things that we recommend. You kind of categorize. Some. I'm sure you all have shared databases of this already? If not, and if some of you do, and others don't be sure to share that info. Every techstars class that I've worked with, they all kind of find a way to conspire together with their respective investor lists, and they kinda divide and conquer.
NSG: Jake, I'm sure that's been in your experience, too. But the whole notion is that like this is the whole stack of sacrificial pancake strategy. So you work on the people that you don't mind kind of.
NSG: you know, being rough with, and then from there you expand to the ones that you really really want on your cap table. So you, as you build that out, and you figure out you know the the why for each 1 1 of the things I always have to navigate with founders that reach out, for you know introduction requests
NSG: is how thoughtful they're being in their ask
NSG: it. It goes all over the place like some people come correct and have thoroughly thought about who they want the intro to, and why, and their alignment with the firm, and, like the context, other people seem to be running a really
NSG: scattered strategy of like casting a really wide net, and the the level of thought and effort that goes into the individual ask is not impressive enough for it to merit someone enthusiastically making an intro for you, so I highly recommend putting as much thought and effort into that as you can, and treating every single you know, request as the one that will lead to a 6 figure or higher check.
NSG: And if you do that, I think that practice is gonna build a really, really strong like personalized muscle.
Meg Hall: I think it would be good for you guys to show us a couple like that look good. Of what like, what should those asks look like, because I think that you know, a lot of Vcs look the exact same on their websites, right? And so it's like, where do I come up with some like excuse if I want to meet with them like it. Could it be like like, if they're out there on podcasts? I can say, like, Hey, I really liked their podcast right. But like some of them, it's just purely based off their website or something. And so.
Meg Hall: But even if they're invested in a competitor, then it might be that they like they, on one hand, they're invested in a similar space and like in your industry. But then, on the other hand, they could just pass off. They could take the meeting and pass it straight off, and like a lot of them won't have multiple horses in the same race. So I'm just.
NSG: Yeah. So a couple of things there, one, we can definitely, you know, put together some references and examples. Jake, I'm nodding at you in case you have anything you can cook up or pull up, that you think would be helpful for them to see but then 2, I I would challenge it a little bit, Meg, in that
NSG: if you're struggling to come up with something unique and differentiated about why you want this conversation with this person with this potential investor.
NSG: That's a tell already
NSG: that I'm out here to try to get commitments. But I'm not out here because I'm being really selective and targeted for who I want on my cap table.
NSG: So if I'm you, I'm I'm I'm digging a little deeper, and I'm asking myself alright. So I'm able to figure out who these people are who works at this firm, and what their backgrounds are, and their experience, and what portfolios they've invested in.
NSG: So, given all of those things, I should have something custom that I can say about why I want to talk to them as opposed to the 100
NSG: 500 other options that I have for outreach.
Jake Gutstein: Yeah, I would also think there are going to be layers to this. So you're a like that a list you're going to treat differently than your C
Jake Gutstein: group of people in terms of the level of detail and attention that you pay like, but it will reflect on the odds and likelihood that the sea will come in right. But like that's kind of
Jake Gutstein: understood between you, you basically like you'll lose efficacy at every stage in this process just because of how much work there is to be done. So the goal is to bring it or be as effective as you can be when you're like
Jake Gutstein: writing an intro or diligencing people. Set yourself up to like.
Jake Gutstein: I'll I'll do it so like you have. All of my introductions are in the same document. I literally just have to click email next to them to send the email. It's already addressed to the right people like I do it so that I limit that type of work, and I can like increase the amount of like customization or those elements that I have.
Meg Hall: Can we see that.
Jake Gutstein: Yeah, for sure. I I think, Chloe, you wanted to share one of mine, but I
Jake Gutstein: can also show, like those docs.
NSG: And I'll just emphasize that what I really want to discourage is
NSG: for any or all of you to resist the temptation to send lazily organized intro requests
NSG: like, it's just off the table like, Don't do it. It's not like. If if for some reason you feel like you just need to do like a little bit of a spam effort in order to make progress and get intros. Talk to me because something's wrong. We have to go back and go, you know, back to the drawing board and figure out a way for you to feel like it's worth your time to put in the effort to make you sure your message requests are customized.
Chloe Lannert: Neil, are you cool? If I take over screen sharing for a second.
NSG: Yeah. Go ahead.
Chloe Lannert: Jake's portable. So this
Chloe Lannert: is not going to be the best example of a tailored ask? Because a lot of the communication about why Jake like? Why the intro made sense for Jake happened on voxer or like offline. So we talked about like the stage fit and like who it made sense to intro to outside of the context of this email. And then he sent over
Chloe Lannert: this message.
Chloe Lannert: So here's his little spiel. He knew who he was getting the intro to.
Chloe Lannert: And then here's all the details he included about his business
Chloe Lannert: and his traction the round.
Chloe Lannert: And then there's that that up into the right graph.
Chloe Lannert: and then I was able to just send it really quickly over to Ashton.
Chloe Lannert: but it asked her if it was a fit, and then they got the meeting.
Chloe Lannert: So.
NSG: Encore.
Chloe Lannert: In terms of the details.
Ankur Toshniwal: Yeah. So I guess one thing to
Ankur Toshniwal: the distinction here is or the question is, was Jake at this time? Were you running like
Ankur Toshniwal: again, like the the reason that we're taking. I'm even taking some of these meetings. Is like for kind of what Neil was saying before is like practice, right? Get start building relationships. But it's completely internal or inbound. Right? Like, I'm I'm putting 0 like, we're trying to build a good business right now. So for me is like, I'm just focused purely on this. We I took a couple earlier on like olive capital and a couple of smaller ones. I told them the same thing like we're focused on building a good business and we'll come back to this later.
Ankur Toshniwal: a part of that. There's a little bit of selection in that as well. Like certain ones I like. I'll go and look at their their their linkedin of like, you know, who who are these people? Do they work? You know what schools they go to, what kind of previous jobs in particular investors go to. But I'm not being super selective in like the inbound process.
Ankur Toshniwal: Is that something that you recommend, Neil like? If they're coming to you that you're like?
Ankur Toshniwal: there's there's people who have ignored. But if it's if it's a specific person coming to you, is there any kind of like, hey? I actually want to talk to this person at your firm or do you just take the meeting with the person who
Ankur Toshniwal: kind of reached out like.
NSG: I think it's respectful to take the meeting with the person who reached out, but to also be clear with them that you're excited and interested in the experience of someone else on their team that you love a referral conversation to. I think that's all totally appropriate. But maybe Jake, the master, knows more.
Jake Gutstein: No, the one. It's just the one asterisk so totally, if they're the same level. But if it's an associate, don't be like I really want to meet with the partner.
Ankur Toshniwal: Yeah, yeah.
NSG: Oh, yeah, yeah, that's a dead yeah. That's that's we've talked to them about that. That's that's a bad move. Right?
Jake Gutstein: Right. But like, if it is like, Hey, this partner reached out, and it's like, I don't know for me. The other person led the investment in Instacart. It would be like, hey? I saw that Ashton led the investment in Instacart at the end of the conversation. Right? You would go in with that being the desired outcome of the meeting. So you got to control the tone to the point that you've earned enough goodwill to get in.
NSG: And and I know this might sound obvious. But like just to be clear, can can someone chime in about? Why, it's important to not ask an associate to introduce you to the partner.
Carlo Scaglia: Kind of feels like you're you're cutting them out like the associate is still quite a lighter point. They
Carlo Scaglia: you need to win them if they, if you win them, they'll pitch you to the partners.
NSG: Yes.
Carlo Scaglia: Because they like you like, understand role to bring deal flow. So you don't. Wanna you don't. You can't on the customer experience.
NSG: Exactly, and I can't emphasize that enough. Y'all, because I know founders end up doing this sometimes because you'll get agitated because you just want to get to the decision maker. But, to be frank, like, I've told you, I've been an associate at these firms in this role, and when I tell a partner at the firm that I was disrespected or overlooked by a founder. They are immediately writing that founder off, and they have negative marks. If not, you know, no interest anymore, because they hired me to be on their team. That means they like me. So if a founder is disrespectful to me, why would a Vc be interested in talking to you?
NSG: So just keep that in mind.
Jake Gutstein: But and then the the pro. But the process is the process right? So it's like kind of like a silly there. There is a silly element where it's like, I know you're not writing the check. And you know you're not writing the check and like, why are we taking this meeting. So the way that you'll you can go about doing that is at the end of the call. Just basically be like I'd love. I'd love to learn a little bit more about your process. What are the next steps?
Jake Gutstein: And it's like.
NSG: To it.
Jake Gutstein: Get me into that like. Let's go to the the next meeting here, and you can force it onto a bit of a timeline depending on the tenor of the conversation like, Encore, you're probably not gonna be like, I need to talk to the partner by next week, because you're not fundraising right.
Ankur Toshniwal: Well, here's that's that's actually like he was like, Hey, I want you to talk to our partner.
Jake Gutstein: Right.
Ankur Toshniwal: So, yeah, which is great. But I don't actually like, I'm actually nervous. I was telling Andrew Andrew's like, why aren't you responding to like, get get back to that. And I was like.
Ankur Toshniwal: I'm actually nervous because I don't want that to be either a shut door. I don't want them. I don't want to go in unprepared like we're, you know. I know that there's gonna be a a process of being prepared and getting like really practicing a part of the pitch. And I kind of, I responded, saying, Hey, I want this to be as informal as possible. We just we just wanna chat. We're just trying to learn right now, we're not really fundraising. We're not actively fundraising.
Ankur Toshniwal: I don't know if the partners like have that off switch
Ankur Toshniwal: like. Is there a version where there's like? You know, I don't want to like.
NSG: Yeah.
Ankur Toshniwal: Kind of shoot that, shoot ourselves.
NSG: There's a couple ways of slide.
Ankur Toshniwal: This meeting early.
NSG: Yeah.
Ankur Toshniwal: Yeah, if like, we don't have kind of the stuff ready.
NSG: I have a couple of ideas, Jake, feel free to jam with me or anyone else on the call. If you have other suggestions for encore. But I really like this specific example. 2 pathways, I would imagine, encore, for this one is given how you're feeling if you're not ready to have that conversation, especially if this is a high value investor that you end up. You know you do want on your cap table.
NSG: It's totally appropriate to tell them, hey? I'd love to meet. But I think it'd be much more appropriate. Once I'm through techstars because I'm heads down, I'm focused on growth product development. And you're really gonna like what you see when I come out of it would love to send you updates. In the meantime, right? That's 1 option. The other option is, take the meeting.
NSG: But you're lowering expectations significantly about what you're gonna talk about right? And you're gonna basically talk about your heads down. And you're coming to the meeting strategically, with something you know, that they can specifically help you with and talk through. So you're showing them that you want to solve a business problem, and you want to leverage their expertise to do so, which gives them more bought into your business outcome.
NSG: Those are my 2 strats. Jake feel free to weigh into.
Jake Gutstein: Like 1,000, I think the only other outcome is to set, or the only other way to approach the meeting is to essentially take it like a 1st meeting. But then make it clear that you're not raising like. Don't have a raise and ask anything like that, and then make it clear. But with that you're gonna come prepared with a deck, a pitch like to be able to facilitate that conversation which I don't think we're in a position for right now. So then it would be default to what Neil is talking about.
Ankur Toshniwal: So I, yeah, I mean, we basically took option 2, I mean, I'm taking option 2 right now, Neil, which was like, Hey, look, we want to talk informally. The number one thing we I think we can do is actually help your port codes right it it and identified. I went through the port codes, I found the exact ones I think, that we could actually help. I sent the specific links and did that.
NSG: Give 1st give first, st let's go. I love it.
Ankur Toshniwal: And so the the question I I have there is like
Ankur Toshniwal: is, are we wasting her time, the the partner's time, by like coming in saying these things, because, like I again, I don't know if she's gonna be if she's gonna be like, look.
Ankur Toshniwal: if you're not trying to raise like, why are we in this conversation?
Ankur Toshniwal: That's why I don't. That's why I don't wanna waste her time, either, and I don't want her.
Ankur Toshniwal: I don't wanna give mixed signals of like, Hey, we're raising. We're not, I. Wanna I'm trying to be clear saying, Hey, we could chat informally. We're we'll happy to chat later on about raising. But the main thing is, we think we can help some of these port codes. That's the main point of this discussion.
Jake Gutstein: Yeah, your head's down building for techstars. You begin to see. You begin to see some early signs of product market fit with companies like these companies. When you had the conversation with the associate, they mentioned that they wanted to connect you and given that we had the time set up while we're not raising. I thought it would be a really cool opportunity to bring up how we've been helping companies like XY and Z.
Ankur Toshniwal: Alright, we'll take it. Thank you.
NSG: I guess I guess we're just like writing all of these emails for you guys. Huh? Let's do it. I can do this all day.
Jake Gutstein: But like in that meeting you gotta you. You gotta bring zest not to steal the like. You gotta like when you're taking yeah, like when you take it like, you gotta be hot on your shit. Not like overtly selling, but like not like, not like coy. And like, we're not raising right now. It's like you're like a fucking badass like you're not raising because you're just.
NSG: Focus on crushing right now, like I'm like, I own the prize.
Ankur Toshniwal: Yeah, I I think we're. I'm trying to create that that atmosphere. But it is something that maybe we could talk about. As well.
NSG: Try to create it, be it.
Ankur Toshniwal: I know, I know.
NSG: You last night. I saw you last night the question you were asking Jake. Like the the look in your eye you got the eye of the tiger. Bro. Just let it in with the investors, too.
NSG: You're you're assessing them as much as they're assessing you like. This is like a little psych coaching thing. But I do want to activate like the dog in every single one of you recognize that these investors are just human beings. Some of them think that they're really smart. Some of them are really smart, but at the end of the day, like Jake said last night, no one knows more about your business than you.
NSG: So if it unfortunately investor, you're locked in here with me.
NSG: cause I have something I'm gonna get value from, because you have portfolio companies that could be my customers. I you have expertise, that's gonna help inform my business strategy right now. And by the way, I want to talk to you in a few months, when I'm ready to take your money.
Jake Gutstein: This is going to sound weird, but like what really helped me with this is like failures on the table. You might go in it might, you might totally crash out in this meeting like they don't want like. There you you are wasting their time. And like they're like, this is total bullshit, and you're conducting yourself poorly, except that just like, bring yourself to the cause. Then, if that's gonna happen, the the result is inevitable.
Jake Gutstein: like it was, it's gonna happen. So you might as well just go in and fucking ball out, you know.
NSG: Yeah, make it fun for you, too. I agree, uncle, does that resonate, or am I preaching too much.
Ankur Toshniwal: No, no, it makes sense. I mean, I I was like, Yeah, we're I already scheduled it. I told her like, Hey, we'll I'll meet like 2 weeks from now. I want to be super prepared as prepared as we can be like I wanna be, you know, that's as much.
NSG: Yeah.
Ankur Toshniwal: Do, and just be like, you know again, folks.
Jake Gutstein: It's been in the right way. There we go.
Jake Gutstein: you prepared like a gentleman, not like somebody that's been watching them through their window for the past couple weeks, you know.
NSG: Correct.
Ankur Toshniwal: I think I watch through the window, but then I'll knock on the door, you know, like
Ankur Toshniwal: as a gentleman.
Jake Gutstein: Amount of preparation and diligence that's required to then be able to dial it back. But like, you just make sure. Yeah, don't be like, I need 2 weeks to prep for this meeting. Be like we're heads down right now in
Jake Gutstein: calendar. Something like that.
Carlo Scaglia: Okay.
NSG: And like.
Carlo Scaglia: Drinking as usual. Bro.
NSG: Yeah, we well, we can. We can also smell it. When a founder has swag versus, when a founder has uncertainty and doubt like it's very obvious for the most part on the investor side. And like, we're looking for those aggressive founders that are clearly only focused on their businesses progress. So if you come off a little savage like, because you're so heads down and focus.
NSG: that's a good sign to the right kind of investor.
NSG: So just recognize like having that spirit and showing up to those meetings with it is an actual, like, absolute differentiator and X factor. Okay, I know we have some hands up so we'll do, Mark Meg. And then Anthony.
Mark Wong: My question is pretty simple. It's just like you broke the categories down. ABC, is there like a range? Yeah, like a safety net you want to have in the the amount of people you want these ranges like maybe like 10, maybe, for a and like 50? Or is it like.
NSG: Hmm. Well, Mark, so a question for you. I'm not sure, if you remember, from Mertz founder story. But how many interactions with Vcs. Do you think you're going to need to close your round when you guys decide to raise?
NSG: Probably a lot? I don't know
NSG: what's your what's your guess? Just throw a number out.
Mark Wong: I don't know more than 20. I have no idea. Yeah.
NSG: 200.
Mark Wong: 200, okay.
NSG: Yeah, start start around 200. So so just to put this in the context for all of you, this is like real. This is mer. Okay. By the way, like, this is the guy who has all the energy in the world when he shows up to any room, and he's actually quite good at fundraising, and that's how much it took him to to close his 1st significant round. And it's a true pattern that I see across a majority of the companies that fundraise in techsars, both within my portfolio and outside of it. So again, like in your head.
NSG: I hear founders that get 2030, 40 interactions. And they're like drained. And they're like, Oh.
NSG: this is so hard. I don't know when's it, gonna you know. And I'm like, look you got, you're only
NSG: 30% of the way there. If that
NSG: so start your engines like you're gonna get rejected a lot. And you're gonna go through a lot of pain. So to answer your question, Mark.
NSG: add a 0 to those numbers you just suggested, and that's how many I would recommend in each of those categories.
Mark Wong: Okay, I'm prepared. I'm getting okay. Thank you. That's pretty crazy. Yeah. But yeah.
NSG: Meg.
Meg Hall: Okay. So going back to like the compliment that you need to give them right of like, why you want to meet with these people. Right? Are you typically looking at your like, your comparables? Right? So I think that you guys mentioned like the food delivery apps for zest. Right? So like, it's like, Okay, they're in. They're investing in, you know.
Meg Hall: food tech space. But not a direct competitor is that kind of like the criteria you're looking for to be able to identify these investors? Or is it that they went to your same school like, what are those things that you're looking for ideally.
NSG: Go ahead, Jake!
Jake Gutstein: You're saying like, what criteria are you looking? It's gonna come up in a million different. Just look for something that would be a natural connection, and so like yes, to everything that you just listed. But like I've been diligencing a fund and then been like, Oh, shit Iv, and like, I'm buddies with Lj. Who found it and just exited. Iv. You know, like it's like it's come up unintentionally as well.
Meg Hall: So I could look through like my friends list as well. Sounds like from this. Call. This. I hadn't thought of this before, but look through my friends. List of who's had companies that have exited. Figure out who their investors are, and have them intro me to them like that's a good like top tier.
Jake Gutstein: Yeah. And then, like, if you, then there's nuance right? So like, if there's another like platform that did something in a similar space to you that exit like, there, you can really ladder this thing up. But like, Yeah, if you have, like a friend who has exited, or friends who have exited who would be willing to facilitate introductions for you like that's definitely going to be the cream of the crop here. It literally their emails are comical
Jake Gutstein: like, it's con like, I like Chloe, awesome like talks up this email. And it's like this, formal like, I had to send that thing. And then she had to send the thing to Ashton. These these founders will literally be like Yo
Jake Gutstein: worth the look. And then it's like, I'm like on the phone with this person like who's the decision maker, and they're ready to make a decision on the call. You know.
Meg Hall: Yeah, okay, thank you. Sorry to get so tactical.
NSG: No, no, Meg, let that's the purpose of this time is to get tactical like this. So don't ever apologize like that's literally the point of this time, and to be clear, I'm super glad you asked that question, and you pull that out of Jake to say, Cause, that's that's truly how it works, which I don't have a a deck slide for. But that's what I need you to hear. That's great.
NSG: Anthony.
Anthony De Silva: Yeah. So you mentioned that we should maybe start reaching out to some of these folks to get the 1st conversation, or just have some intros.
Anthony De Silva: like, how many people should we reach out to, or should we, or just like, be very selective at this point? Or just, if we have like a goal of like getting to 200 meetings or 200 conversations. Should we like start that process now? And like, try to spam as many people as we can.
Anthony De Silva: I I never wanna hear you say spam with respect to this process. Ever right?
Anthony De Silva: So sorry.
NSG: I want you to be. No, no, that's fine. I'm just giving you shit. But
NSG: how many? It's going to depend on your strategy and your stage and your readiness, some of you. It's totally fine to not reach out to anyone right now, and others. There's some people that you really want to make sure that you earn the favor of. So it's a long game. So you want to get on the radar early because, you know, it's gonna take multiple interactions and a period of time where they're seeing your progression and trajectory for you to actually get them over the line.
NSG: The other suggestion that we've made so far. Anthony is to also choose some sacrificial pancakes, some people that you're willing to like, basically learn from and like, get roughed up by, and maybe you don't. It's not the end of the world. If they don't end up on your cap table, if they end up saying No, but at the very least is giving you enough exposure and training to get into the rhythm, talking about your business with confidence. So I recommend those 2 kind of components. One is like the the people that I are my dream investors.
NSG: And and you guys know, like, I'm I'm have a bit of a weird story with that, like I had a dream person that I want on my cap table. I didn't want any investors.
NSG: but there was someone who strategically would have disproportionately benefited my business, and I happened to get those people to be my investors right so, and that was 37 signals.
NSG: The people who invented ruby on rails for the person who founded the 1st coding boot camp who teaches Ruby on rails. What a perfect strategic connection and opportunity for me to validate what I'm doing and what I'm up to. So each of you have probably some strategic angel or company that would disproportionately signal to the market that you're the company to bet on.
Jake Gutstein: I think it's worth thinking these those things through as well, because they it'll come up in ways that you don't anticipate. As long as you're kind of open to it, so like you might not be able to facilitate that strategic angel right away. Maybe you will be. But even if you're not like it could come to pass. We've been thinking about this at my company for a really long time for strategic angels and food, and only now is that actually like coming to be. And so it's kind of like a.
NSG: Jake. I think it's time for them to hear your story about how you got here.
Jake Gutstein: Huh!
NSG: This is a crazy story. We just got this from him yesterday, but I think it's worth you all hearing. He was supposed to share it. Last night the founder store.
Jake Gutstein: I don't know what value there is in this like I.
NSG: There is definitely value in this. So that's cool.
Jake Gutstein: Yeah, I I mean, I guess, basically like,
Jake Gutstein: the what catalyzed my being out here was I was supposed to meet with the founder or a partner in New York 2 weeks ago, whose Nanny quit on them last minute with like a young child. So they flew back to Sf, so I just. And then they were like, All right, let's get some time back on the calendar. So.
NSG: And tell them what you did. Show them the tactics.
Jake Gutstein: I did some crack shit where I hit them off. And I said because they were like, Let's just get some zoom time on. The reality is like this person could lead the round. This would be somebody that would you would clearly have in the Tra boot camp shouldn't even be, shouldn't be participating in a round of our size like that's out of thesis. But like they're leaning in for whatever reason and so
Jake Gutstein: I because it's a bit farther along. I just reached out, and I was like, by coincidence, I'm actually going to be in Sf. Next week, anyway, to take a couple of meetings. If you want like. I wasn't like, can I? Please fly to Sf. To meet with you? I was like, I actually have meetings booked out there anyway. And so if you want to meet up like, let's meet up literally within 30. It was hard for me to schedule the Zoom within 30min they had reached back out. And we're like great Tuesday, Tuesday, these times. Wednesday, these times. And so I
Jake Gutstein: booked the call. I booked a flight, and I flew out here.
NSG: And then no. Then you called me so. He booked that call. He booked a flight and he goes, hey, Neil, I kind of told this investor that I would be in San Francisco next week. Can I crash at your place? He like back his way into it. I was like, Yeah.
Jake Gutstein: Then you let it spiral from there where it's like. Now, I'm emailing other people, hey? I happen to have meetings on the calendar, and then you're like booking the meetings out with like the more qualified leads. And then, like, Yeah, dude, we'll see.
Jake Gutstein: And as you can see, this man is sitting in my office. Slash extra guest bedroom right now.
Jake Gutstein: We just got not that one, but another one seems to want to meet the whole team next week, so we're gonna see where we go from there. But I get on the flight.
Jake Gutstein: A Monday flight from Sf. Or from Jfk to Sfo, and I'm like sitting down, getting ready like to do my thing. And like literally next to me, I, this freak shit, but like on the email sign off of the person next to me. It said, Vp of programming and development at the food network. And so I was like, all right, this is interesting
Jake Gutstein: And so I was like, All right, this one. This is worth 8 bucks, like I I paid for the Wi-fi just like after the flight. I just like kind of stashed it. He like settles in. He starts watching the Bob Dylan movie. I'm like, I, flight takes off. We got 6h captive audience. So it's like, I just like tossed my computer open, paid for the Wi-fi and just like flip through our deck
Jake Gutstein: like next to him and it came to a moment where, like he likes me on the shoulder. Oh, like you're is this like you're in something in food like I'm in food, too. It's like this is the longest job he starts like opening up like the longest job I've ever had. I've been here for 10 years. I'm running all Guy Fieri shows. That's actually why I'm going out there like he does other shows as well.
Jake Gutstein: I always like we spoke about a bunch of stuff. But, like, now, we're meeting with Guy Fieri Cfo, and we are meeting with Stephanie Isard. If you know who she is as a chef, and so like it's just like a weird moment where, like, literally, by the time that the wheels touched down, I was like full all right now we can pack up and go back home. But like we've been talking about them forever. But it's really, really fucking hard to get in touch with Guy Fieri. And so it's like we. It's it's actually
Jake Gutstein: to facilitate how that could work out has never been clear. Couldn't have plotted this. But we've known it for years.
Jake Gutstein: Stephanie Isard was actually farther up on the list for longer period of time. And so that's like kind of fun, because she's already consent, like she's already definitely into talking.
NSG: But the moral of the story for me is that there's these high IQ. Reads of any situation that you all find yourselves in in San Francisco. You could have an interaction like that in a coffee shop. I'm sure it's happened to some of you before, right? So I just wanted Jake to share that anecdote, because, like, that's exactly the game, both for fundraising and for sales and other partnerships and opportunities. Is you all keeping your head on a swivel, being mindful of your environment around you, and being ready to sell your company and then actively talk about it and introduce people to it. I think it's a really really cool
NSG: you know, way of being.
Jake Gutstein: I will, I will. Yeah, I will also say, though, like, there's like
Jake Gutstein: an element to everybody's getting pitched. And so like, he actually shared these ideas with me. Which was not, I was gonna ask like, there is no doubt that that's like where I would have wanted to take the conversation, but like we were just like talking about everything we were talking about. Jeff Tweedy, the musician.
NSG: Yeah.
Jake Gutstein: Like all over the map like his kid, he's like, stay.
NSG: Oh, you know Spencer Tweedy, Jake.
Jake Gutstein: No, this is Jeff from sun vault.
NSG: Yeah. Well, so Jeff's Jeff's son, Spencer was actually a big supporter of my political campaign for Mayor. So side note. But we'll talk about that later. Yeah.
Jake Gutstein: Yeah, yeah, they're Illinois guys. Actually, Wilcos, Illinois. Yeah, yeah.
NSG: I know.
Jake Gutstein: But
Jake Gutstein: yeah, so we were like we were kind of going there. But like he, he brought up both of these people to me. He's like yo. I really gotta. He's like Guy Fieri will never take the he's calloused. He has trust issues is the way that he described it. But.
Jake Gutstein: You should totally talk to his guy. Read, which is the Cfo and I would love to set that up. And then the other.
Jake Gutstein: yeah, yeah, it would just kind of like unfolded from
Jake Gutstein: from there. He's also like, just we're talking about his life. And so now I know that Guy Fieri
Jake Gutstein: gets up and works every day because he hates Gordon Ramsay, and like
Jake Gutstein: I never would know that. So my deck! This is like the kind of other pieces of it, because at 1st my team was like, you're being stupid, and then I was like, just trust me. Like my! My deck has Gordon Ramsay in it.
Jake Gutstein: I was like Pull Gordon Ramsay, and put Guy Fieri's friend in there because it's like a it's an up in the air thing, but, like his whole thing is, he wants to beat Gordon Ramsay, and we were like either. It's going to signal like, Oh, I can't let him get a hold of this thing, or it's going to be like fucking. They're just tossing in the most popular food Guy, and I'm number 2, and I'm that close to being there, so I don't know.
NSG: Yeah, so so that. But that's the inner game here. The inner game of of showing up with thought. Right? So it's like, all of a sudden Jake is demonstrating all of this mastery of knowing the nuances of the players in his industry. There's a version of that for each of you as well. Right like I. I saw your list and requested who you want to connect with Meg. I'm thinking about you, but, like like.
NSG: you will have these dream connections and people that if you get an audience with, if you found in an elevator, if you had a chance to talk to for 5min. There's a real argument that you could get them strategically on your cap table as an angel.
Meg Hall: so wait. So you put the his competitor on in the deck, did it work. What did it what was his face in the meeting.
Jake Gutstein: I purposely put his buddy in the deck instead of his competitor.
Meg Hall: Oh, I think you should have done the competitor. I think that that might have like lit a fire unders, but it could have been interesting. It's a little bit more risky, but it could have been.
Jake Gutstein: I I agree, like you could play it either way. But like for me, it was like me and all my friends.
Jake Gutstein: It's like we actually, there's an opportunity to play this thing. I, this is a guy that doesn't have to work anymore, like hasn't for years, and is at the absolute top of his game, but like just drives energy from, he's just a competitive
Jake Gutstein: player. It would be hard to signal that I didn't put
Jake Gutstein: Gordon Ramsay is the most popular food person in the world like it would be hard, and that's why he was in our deck like it would be hard to signal that it wasn't in our deck.
Jake Gutstein: because he's the most popular food person in the world, and rather because I'm trying to like make him competitive.
Meg Hall: And so you knew that you were gonna sit next to that guy on the flight, or you just it was coincidental.
Jake Gutstein: One's now.
Meg Hall: That's amazing. That's so cool.
NSG: And it happens disproportionately, more out here, right being in the bay. That's like, that's the strange, like magic of being out here that I want you all to like. I mean, I know you know this, but, like lean in, take advantage of it. Put yourself in more situations to get lucky.
Meg Hall: Yeah, there's this lady who she's the head of a all female Cros group. That's also a Vc group. And I'm like, I really want to talk to her. So I go to her, Linkedin. I'm like, Oh, we're already connected. And I realized that we had sat together at like a Foster city like concerts in the Park night, and I shared a bottle of wine with her like 5 years ago, and I'm.
NSG: Like.
Meg Hall: I can get her to remember me, and I don't think she remembers me. But, like Lady, you already gave me your phone number. We're already friends, and she doesn't remember me.
Jake Gutstein: Through Linkedin for this.
Meg Hall: I went to Linkedin. But then I realized I had her phone number in my phone and I messaged her on both. And she didn't reply back, and I'm like 5 years ago she would have replied back, but it's been too long.
Jake Gutstein: Control that I definitely would go straight for the text next time. In that situation.
Meg Hall: Yeah, yeah.
NSG: Cool. I'm gonna blaze through some more of this content. But obviously, like the conversation is way more interesting. So chime in, let's keep talking. I love this so as far as finding the right introducer. This is something that
NSG: some founders are phenomenal at like. So again, I'm gonna praise chamber and Alex from Chamber, because, like, he's always qualifying
NSG: my strength level with the connection he's asking for me to make an introduction to literally right before this call I made another introduction, but I did it to someone who I don't know, but I am. They connected to me on Linkedin. So I told Alex like, here's my degree like, I don't know this person. They message me to be connected on Linkedin. Would you like me to ask for their email to make this intro for you.
NSG: And they said Yes, because they thought about it, and they didn't have anyone else who was any closer to this person. But sometimes I'll say, Hey, I don't know this person. Well, I'm happy to try if you don't have anyone else that has a stronger connection, and I'll never hear back from Alex, because he goes and finds someone else who has a better connection to that person. And that's okay. So just know that you should be scrutinus and diligent about who amongst your available network? And this includes techsars, founders, and alums in the broader network, too.
NSG: And we have a session coming up about that that Chloe's organizing with Dave Dave Scott from evil genius games. But do the work
NSG: to like understand the connection level of each person you're asking for the intro to don't just settle, for oh, this person is connected. So therefore I'll go with this person, because that's gonna be easy, efficient and fast.
NSG: usually like the the benefit of taking the time to be thorough about how and who is, is completely worth it. In my experience.
Jake Gutstein: It. It depends. And also, like, just if you have to source a really big pipeline for the people that are lower priority. So not that a tier you could
Jake Gutstein: send like
Jake Gutstein: Mert, is an example of this. I go on. Mert's connected to. I'm pretty sure that he has the most Linkedin connections in the history of mankind. And so it's like I went on there, and I shot him a text, and I was like, Hey, I saw that you're connected to these people, do you know, do you like know them well, or are they just like Linkedin connections? And he was like, I know these 2 well.
Jake Gutstein: great, exactly portable cause he can, like.
NSG: Yes.
Jake Gutstein: I this that's the stylistic element where some people might not like that. I I really really dislike somebody hopping on a 30min call with me just to ask me for introductions. Why, like.
NSG: No.
Jake Gutstein: Literally like any of you guys are way past the point like, just send me a text and ask me if I know the people, and if I do like, I don't like.
NSG: That's right.
Jake Gutstein: Your appeal.
NSG: That that's by far the the best move like. I see. I know founders that want to sit down and walk you through a spreadsheet, and I know founders that send you a list of 5 names and go. How well do you know these 5 people? And then I'll respond and say, I know 3 out of those 5 very confidently, the other 2 I could try but the 3 for sure. I know I can make an intro to, and they're like great. I'll send you those 3 over right now, and I'll get back to you on the other 2, in case I can't find anyone else who can make those stronger intros.
Jake Gutstein: It's like, what are you actually asking for? And don't wait like everyone's been like, Be respectful of people's time is my like, general. It just drives me nut nuts when it's like, what? Why are we here? Cause like I don't want to, just.
Jake Gutstein: you know. I don't need to just like rant for a little bit, you know.
NSG: Yep.
NSG: I think it looks like message received here with us. This is good where it can go wrong. We've we've kind of beat this over the head. But I just wanna keep going because this is going to happen to somebody in this class. And I'm gonna remind you of this recording in this moment, in this timestamp and conversation, when it does but again, like people not coming correct.
NSG: not like like the the temptation to like hit click, because it's gonna send out to hundreds of investors. And you're really desperate because you're running out of runway. And you really need someone to say Yes as soon as possible.
Meg Hall: You're gonna hate this. But I did actually have a cold email campaign that I sent out last last summer, and I sent out 500, and I got 60 replies, which was a pretty high reply. Rate. About 30 of them were saying that they were, you know, invested out of scope. But at least they're still replying right? But I got about 30 meetings from one camp email campaign. So don't kill me.
NSG: I mean, I know I'm not. I'm not telling you. Look, do whatever you need to do. I'm just saying that. Think about how much more of a conversion you could have if you take the approach that we're advising you to.
NSG: Yeah, right?
NSG: So I'm not saying you won't get responses if you send out 500 messages, but, like, let's qualify them and increase the likelihood of you getting what you want.
Chloe Lannert: Yeah, the other thing is, Meg, you're likely to have put a lot more care and attention and personalization into those cold emails than the baseline for cold emails. So like.
Chloe Lannert: think about how long those 500 took you to research and set up
Chloe Lannert: a lot of people like we're we're working with the baseline that a lot of people will literally like BCC all, or just do a mail merge switching out the 1st names
Chloe Lannert: you being you probably didn't do that. So.
Meg Hall: My platform.
Chloe Lannert: There's levels. Yeah, yeah, there's levels.
NSG: Mr. Fernandez.
Andrew Fernandes: Whatever email, you're getting 12% response rate. Can you please send me? It.
Meg Hall: I can forward it to you from last summer. Yeah, I can forward it to you, but.
NSG: I I feel I feel like Andrew like it's so interesting every time like this comes up from your angle. Because I know this is your your mission and your job right now.
NSG: We I think we need to take some time to like. Look at whatever you're sending, because if you're not getting the results that you want, because I every time we have a session. This is the question you asked. I knew it was coming.
NSG: Maybe there's something we need to do to help you refine your outreach.
Carlo Scaglia: Yeah. But that conversion rate's crazy, Neil.
Carlo Scaglia: We just want to know what what that metric like, what that email is like. That conversion rate is wild.
NSG: Not questioning how well the conversion rate is. I'm not. I'm not. I'm I'm making this completely different comment. Guys.
NSG: you know, I.
Carlo Scaglia: I don't know. Mile rich is decent mile.
NSG: I'm I'm not saying, don't find out why Meg is dope like we all know Meg is dope, and we're gonna unpack her dopeness and her emails all day long. So I'm glad he asked. But I I was more.
Meg Hall: This is the best one I've had out of all of my cold email campaigns. The best one was for investors, and my hypothesis is like, maybe they just don't get that many cold emails. Maybe that's why they all replied back, because I was like it was like I had to go out in one day, and I literally had like 60 responses in a week, and I was like, I can't keep up with this.
Meg Hall: And it packed my calendar full, and then none of them actually converted those so.
Alex Nativelle: I think this. It's also their jobs right to like, go look at companies, what is happening. And I think their conversion rates also. Not like. It's
Alex Nativelle: normal that they you have more responses, right? You're not trying to sell them. It's also their job to go look at at companies. And I'm sure your email was great. So
Alex Nativelle: I think that's that's very that makes a lot of sense.
NSG: I just wanna reemphasize the point made earlier that this is gonna sound a little dramatic. But we recommend
NSG: for you to do what we call artisanal fundraising
NSG: like this is like, literally like you. You're making a perfect stroke every time when you're making a move.
NSG: And the reason you do. That is because every single time you introduce yourself to one of these potential investors.
NSG: that's a potential 1 million dollar check, right or commitment.
NSG: So if you, if you take each move with that gravity, with the weight of the opportunity that you have, even if you know 99% of the time, it's going to be rejected. It's worth the effort every single time to put your all into those, because how you do anything is how you do everything, and it builds up the muscle of you coming correct to the person that's ultimately going to bet on you.
Meg Hall: So, Neil and Chloe, you don't want me to send them the sequence.
NSG: I do, I would love for you to share the sequence. Look, Meg, look! I'm giving you advice. I am not offering up any mandate here. So if you all want to ignore everything that I've said.
NSG: you're only just gonna harm my reputation. That's okay. I'll get over it. Just be successful.
Meg Hall: I think I'm gonna do a combination of like if if you look at the sequence, it still includes, like the Intro Y and specific example, and then it has the other stuff, right? Which I think is probably what I would do anyways. But the intro is like, Hey, we have this in common or so and so can.
Meg Hall: Here's the forwardable email. So I think, is a combination of the 2 right cause. I would I had the Intro Y and specific example in there already. So it it looks like that. But it's just a like a a methodologized approach.
NSG: I just never want us to settle for good enough. And instead, when there's opportunities to take things a step further to do that right. It's worth it. It's completely worth it to go that extra step. And one way that might be helpful for some of you to activate this is to empathize. Put yourself into the shoes of the person on the other end. I'm a busy investor. I see thousands of companies every year. I'm only going to make 5 or 10 investments this year.
NSG: Who are the people I'm willing to go out of my way to take time to get to know and to respond to emails from
NSG: the people who have clearly gone above and beyond to know who they're talking to, who they want to speak with and why? That's it. So so long as you feel like you're duly compet competing at that level, there's other founders doing even more than you probably think you can to introduce themselves to these investors.
NSG: Cool.
NSG: alright. So you know, 5 trusted people is a great start. Obviously this number could probably go up a lot more. But I think this is a good starting point. For you to talk to trusted people who can, you know, help you contextualize the quality of your introductions.
NSG: and then.
Alex Nativelle: Not sure I understood the slide.
Alex Nativelle: This one. Yeah.
NSG: Yes.
NSG: So
NSG: you're starting to qualify your initial introduction. So that basically what we're saying is you want to choose, like your initial 5 people that you think you can ask for intros from.
Alex Nativelle: Okay.
Alex Nativelle: Thanks.
NSG: So like, Jake was saying earlier. Sometimes I'll get this investor pipeline document from founders where it's like, Hey, here's a a big spreadsheet, and here are all the names. I want you to scroll through the spreadsheet, and I want you to click on all the names that you know.
NSG: and I'm like I guess I could do that. But that's probably not the best use of.
Jake Gutstein: The one level. Worse than this is when somebody said, Is there anybody that you think would be good for me to talk to.
NSG: Yes, yes, I'm like, maybe
NSG: I don't know like the Rolodex is tough man like that. Maybe some people are just off the top of their head. They know who exactly to connect you with, and that's good for them. Most of us are actual human beings.
NSG: and when you ask an overwhelming question like that. You're not going to get a very good answer.
NSG: So specific targeted, really thought through is going to get you way more yield?
NSG: So yeah, we've talked about all of this. The why for the intro. So yeah, I end up like, going back and forth with founders. Sometimes whenever I see affordable. That isn't impressive to me, and like I said to you all, what I'm looking for
NSG: is to forward on a message where it feels like the person I'm introducing you to. I'm doing a favor for them by introducing you to them
NSG: like, I'm literally saying, Hey, like I'm really proud of this founder. This is one of my favorites. They're they're they're they're doing great. This would absolutely be worth your time. To to be connected to. And you have to come correct. If you're gonna do that as a part of you know, we have to have a mutual kind of reputation and connection we're we're sharing together here.
NSG: Yeah. The uniqueness of your company. Impactful information around growth very similar to what Jake just demoed with Chloe showed from Jake's affordable request. It might be worth like sharing that. You know, in base Camp Chloe, or some version of that short and concise, is also important, Jake. I don't know if you have comments on this, because I know you send some pretty meaty emails, and you think a lot but I definitely most of the time when I'm seeing Jake's messages or others that I'm editing, I recommend cutting it by anywhere from, you know, 40 to 60 or more.
NSG: But yeah, there's ways to be really, really good at this, and you'll learn over time. You won't be perfect. But, like, be really scrutinist, and don't just like accept that. What you have is what you will continue to share.
NSG: Yeah. So as far as introducer engagement. You know. Understand managing the timeline and the follow ups. Don't ever get offended that you're not hearing from someone a lot of people talk about. Oh, they ghosted me, and I'm like, well, let's just assume that they had a lot going on, and maybe something like
NSG: got missed or lost, or whatever and then, if you never end up hearing back feel free to like. Still close the loop, you know, and and let people know either way. How something went if they introduced you. But also, if you're not hearing back from an investor
NSG: like, let the let the person who introduced you know, and they just be respectful and gracious about it all the way through.
NSG: Yeah, as far as the timeline. So this is kind of a rough and tumble. Obviously, it's gonna flex and and shift a little bit for each of your situations.
NSG: part of it for me is like, usually when I hear founders say they want to raise, you know, want to launch a raise in in 3 months. Always gonna take longer so just I always tack on like an arbitrary additional amount of time for everybody's plan. But we're kind of through. Techsar is kind of guiding you all through being ready with all of these steps, so I wouldn't worry too much about it. But that's just like a rough idea of what to expect. Timeline, wise and materials wise.
NSG: and as far as the materials themselves. This is a quick snapshot. You guys have access to this deck, and I'll I'll remind you of it as well. It's in base camp already, so you can, you know, read all of this. But if you have any questions about these things, you can raise your hand or speak up, but otherwise I'm gonna keep going.
Ankur Toshniwal: Back one slide. You said, so this is you're saying 3 plus or minus 3 months to raising or plus or minus 3 months to
Ankur Toshniwal: of prepping.
NSG: This is prep. This is all. Prep.
Ankur Toshniwal: Okay? And then, okay, cool, cool. Thanks. That's that's.
NSG: Yeah, this is all prep. Yep.
NSG: and then here's a helpful checklist. That might be good for you to like. Kind of think about and track and use as a reference. You should build your own, of course, and I think if I blazed through this content fast enough, Jake, if you're open to it, I'd love a live demo of your unique system if you're open to sharing
NSG: cause. I think that's really cool. Okay, cool. Alright. So now, I'm really motivated to just place through this. So we can get to the the meat of how a founder right now is actively doing it. But yeah, another, you know, kind of version of looking at a timeline and completion. And as you can imagine, this is in part what we've instituted in our program for techsars. Sf, where we're kind of tracking your progress and completing some of these steps.
NSG: So one pagers, of course, are good Troy tends to recommend holding the deck hostage. So that can work and not work depending on who you're communicating with as Jake reference in his story last night. But yeah, the one pager usually gets you over the line with, you know, requests about, you know, the tear sheet about you
NSG: the investment. Memo kind of template for that here as well. This is something that
NSG: and this should be true for everything. But I do see founders that end up, never tweaking, or changing, or modifying or improving these things. These are living, breathing documents that you should be chiseling and iterating and refining consistently over and over again.
NSG: Most of these, if they were actual physical paper, should be dog-eared, meaning like they're worn and torn and scribbled around and adjusted. And I'd love for you all to keep that same energy with respect to how you communicate about your business to investors
NSG: again question Bank.
NSG: So I'm assuming everyone has it now. If you don't, I'm just, you know I'm not upset. I'm just disappointed.
NSG: But that, being said this is not only gonna help you with your demo day. QA. It's gonna be deadly for your interactions with investors like Jake said. There's 8 to 10 pathways that his conversations go when he's talking to an investor.
NSG: When I was both raising capital and pitching my business to lots of people and stakeholders, I don't think this has changed. This is 15 years ago
NSG: I had almost a hundred slides for my 10 slide deck.
NSG: so I have 10 slides that I will introduce my business with, and walk you through and do my pitch, or whatever, and then depending on where the conversation goes.
NSG: I've got slides 11 through 99 that I'm ready to jump to depending on how the conversation is going, what questions you're gonna ask.
NSG: and I know it, and I know it. Well.
NSG: Jake, I don't know if you want to comment on this and the question bank and keeping track of what questions you get asked.
Jake Gutstein: Yeah, I mean, I'm happy to show what I have. But.
NSG: Alright go for it!
Jake Gutstein: Oh, here we go. Okay,
Jake Gutstein: hang on. And I guess I can just like share as I zoom through this stuff.
Jake Gutstein: What's the rule about doing live demos do alright
Jake Gutstein: let's see which talk it is. I believe it's this. So like I wrote these to myself. These.
NSG: Will you? Do the view? Zoom in? Yep, perfect.
Jake Gutstein: We we actually did briefly talk about this yesterday. But like
Jake Gutstein: this is my general approach for how to answer questions that I get? So yeah,
Jake Gutstein: it's right. Like, there are questions that are asked that are not actually hinting at the actual question like, could we get to what is actually being asked about. And then this we talked about yesterday. This is truly the most like. If there's 1 thing to take away from, how to handle these investor meetings. It's this, this succinct answer, then details
Jake Gutstein: than any trends that you're seeing like really don't beat around the bush when you're being asked questions. And then, yeah, I just like took the aggregate of questions that I got, you know, when I was doing zest. And I
Jake Gutstein: add them up 30 most popular questions that we get here are like great answers that I found they're kind of in my speak. This is not like necessarily an external facing document. But yeah.
NSG: And so if I'm hearing you right, Jake, this isn't a Q&A doc that goes into your data room that the investors can click on and read the answers to this is literally your tear sheet, for how you verbally respond to questions when you're asked in real time.
Jake Gutstein: I had a Q&A doc in the 1st one, and that turned into like a strategic what I call a strategic outlook, Doc, but that also really had to do with the nature of the questions that I get about my business, and like a lot of the general ones being.
Jake Gutstein: How do you get from where you are right now to a company that's going to return the fund. And so I kind of went about doing it in a way that's like.
NSG: Yes.
NSG: that point you just made is is again. This is like outside inside baseball. But like you gotta do the work for whoever it is that's gonna be your champion at that firm to to sell the story, and like the big question is always like, How does this return the fund.
NSG: So if you give them that narrative of how it does it. And all of a sudden they think it's theirs right. So you play a little magic trick, because all of a sudden they've done the math to figure this out, and they have a cool pitch to make to the fun, and they're gonna look like the hero.
NSG: But at the end of the day you fed them that language unbeknownst to them, you were literally
NSG: like shaping their thought process around your strategy.
NSG: and all of a sudden they have it now, ready to pitch on your behalf.
NSG: Jake. I don't know if you've done that, but sounds like you know.
Jake Gutstein: That's literally no, that's literally it. And and like I'll I will ask them straight up like, what can I do to make your life easier like if they're like, Oh, we're going into the meeting on Friday, and that you know, I or I sees on Monday and we need this and to get to Tuesday. It's like
Jake Gutstein: I need to get 2 partners on board. Okay, what would? What would be most helpful for me to give you to get those partners on board.
NSG: Right? Yes. But then you end up partnering up with somebody at the firm. And basically you, you're both working together to answer the right questions for the for the committee.
NSG: It's a great, great dynamic
NSG: sweet. Okay? So we talked about the points of a financial model. I know some of you have done it. Others feel like you need to do it at some point. I can't emphasize enough that if you think you're gonna fundraise. This needs to be done. It needs to be done well. And we literally have one of our eirs who's a pro at helping you with this so I highly recommend you all. Don't
NSG: skip out on the opportunity to leverage both Verona and everyone else here who's good at it, like I think Chris expressed his willingness to support some of you on that, and a few others maybe. Get over the line with this, please.
NSG: It is so important. It is so essential. Once you have it and you know it. Well, you'll ask yourself, how could I have like? How like? How come? I waited so long to take this seriously, because it literally helps you think through business decisions in a in a relatively you know, objective way.
NSG: So I think it's a second brain for you, and it should be a tool, not something that you're dreading having to in like figure out how to do
NSG: cool and and, by the way, like, it's usually the CEO. But whoever's having these investor meetings needs to have like deep like understanding and mastery of that model, and the ability to talk through it, to break it down, explain its nooks and crannies, and how it works, and like also just demonstrate excitement that you're tracking metrics. You're forecasting the performance of your business, and you're kind of getting them in on it to to kind of demonstrate that enthusiasm. Troy's already made this point. He's made the case to you all already. But just thought I would reemphasize it here.
NSG: Any any financial model hero stories, Jake.
Jake Gutstein: Qualify a hero story because it's.
NSG: Hero story meaning like, when did it actually make a difference? Because I know some investors don't care and don't have the competency to even engage deeply on it, but others every now and then, if you catch the right one, they're usually impressed when they see a founder that actually knows their numbers.
Jake Gutstein: Yeah, it's well that oh, that always. And also, if you actually do inform decisions, so this can ladder down to like all right, why are you raising money? I'm raising money to hire 4 people to work on these 2 things that we spoke about earlier in the call.
Jake Gutstein: And then it's like.
Jake Gutstein: How do you know that you're raising money to hire 4 people? Well, I have a I have a model like we. I don't. Actually I. This, this line actually typically hit. It's like, I don't actually run my company. I let the model tell me what to do.
Jake Gutstein: If I can set up, we can set up a follow up call to to go through it.
NSG: Walk you through it. Yeah.
Jake Gutstein: Right. They understand that it's gonna be wrong. I think that like different people have liked to look at different elements
Jake Gutstein: of it. But it's just signaling that you understand how dollars into the business come out, I think, is most important at the Pre seat phase, like, there's a conception of how the business makes money, and there is a plan like something that they like for us also is that even though that we forecast this way, there's a way that this thing just blows up like really.
NSG: Yes.
NSG: I'm excited about all the ways that I can make money with this business. Let me show you some of the scenarios of what's possible.
Jake Gutstein: Yeah.
NSG: This is what it looks like without your money. This is what it looks like with your money. This is what it looks like with a whole bunch of money.
NSG: Isn't this cool? Isn't this interesting?
NSG: I'm actually like tweaking this still shoes. I'm not sure how this experiment's gonna go like, if you demonstrate that kind of intellectual like excitement about your own business model to an investor. Oh, that's music to my ears.
NSG: right? I want to work with those kinds of founders.
NSG: Great. We talked about data room a little bit. We've done a whole talk on this, thanks to Chloe introducing it a few weeks back. So you know, you're gonna have some variance for what to include in your respective data rooms depending on what stage you're at, and what's important.
NSG: I know some founders that have just one link, and it just is what it is, and that's what they share. I know plenty of other founders that have custom data rooms depending on who they're interacting with, who they're sharing it with. And they kind of keep track of, you know the dedicated data room formats for different stakeholders.
NSG: Yeah, just another example here of that. You can look at that from, you know. Later on when you look at the deck afterwards. And as far as hygiene, like keeping it organized. Not being lazy about like both copy language file names. All those things need to be really dialed in those little like subtle points of attention to detail matter. And this goes all the way to like
NSG: making sure that all your links work and your copy is correct on your homepage.
NSG: Right it. It goes down to those details when we see any like crack in the armor
NSG: that this founder isn't quite as detail oriented as their posturing.
NSG: that that is, it's not like a deal breaker, but it's usually a tell in the negative direction, and it could become death by a thousand cuts of a reason why it just doesn't feel right to say yes to this founder. Something's off or something's incomplete, or they're not quite crossing their t's and dotting their eyes. It's the same as if, like you show up to a few meetings late with them.
NSG: Right? That's the same bad taste in your mouth that they're gonna have. So you want to make sure you cover all of your bases here with those details.
NSG: Another one that's important is the minimizing acronyms and nebulous terms accessibility. Right? You don't want to speak too simplistic where it doesn't seem like you're sophisticated with the business. But at the same time you don't want to be so, Jargony, that you're trying to exclude people from understanding what it is that you do for an unnecessary reason.
NSG: Okay, so the means themselves. This is really, really, I think, important and helpful to keep track of. You know, tracking your interactions very similar to your sales process. You know Jake would love to get your reaction if you feel like this is.
NSG: you know, oversimplified. And if there's other versions of this but the only version I know that's better than what I'm seeing here is the ones where you get commitments much sooner than 3 plus which can happen. You can consolidate and compress this timeline if you're effective enough over time.
Jake Gutstein: Yeah.
Jake Gutstein: So with regards to feedback on this also.
Jake Gutstein: I like this. I think for us, it's also we were talking about inputs into a system yesterday. So.
Jake Gutstein: Global here. I actually break out that time before the 1st meeting, quite a bit more when I'm actually trying to run this process. So I'll do like sourcing who the investor is finding the warm introduction
Jake Gutstein: the investor accepting the warm introduction, the investor scheduling a meeting, and then the 1st meeting.
Jake Gutstein: Because those are all like controllable movable moments, because then it's 1st meeting, second meeting. I I ideally where it's like second meeting, and we're going. But to your point it can be 3 plus.
NSG: Right any questions about this. Y'all, I got it
NSG: so again, when you're speaking to these folks, you're building a relationship. You're you're you're trying to. I mean, really like the true investors that end up being actually like involved on in your on your board, for example, are people that you feel friendly with to a certain extent. Right? So you you're gonna have this closeness with them, like when you know Jake runs his informal board meetings that I I get to be on with Bob Mesta and some other people. I'm looking forward to it next week. It's awesome, because it's clearly we're all here on team zest and team, Jake.
NSG: And even though we all have different expertise and perspectives, and we disagree sometimes even on those calls like there's a strong connection, because Jake has clearly curated his tribe
NSG: to support him. So it almost makes sense. Why, we're all kind of working together and getting along. And it's going to be clear for each of you when you make your choices for who you want to be your investor. So, S. Mile, this might be a great time for me to respond to your question in the chat.
NSG: Things can absolutely go wrong if you choose the wrong people to be on your cap table, and it can be hell on earth. You've heard Mertz, founder story of some of the challenges he had with investors that tried to replace him as CEO, and put in someone that did not respect him or his business in a way that was this whole. You know, baby, that he, you know tried to to grow. And I've heard a lot of horror stories from founders that
NSG: were not particularly selective, at whose money they were willing to take, and when it came down to some tough decisions that needed to be made for the companies to move forward or be successful.
NSG: Sometimes those people will not do what's right for founders, or do it in your own interest, and obviously do everything in their interest which could include holding back rounds to get done because they're not willing to sign paperwork or agree to adjustments of terms when there needs to be for the next round to get closed. Sometimes there's investors that you know over exploit their pro rata rights in a way that is disadvantageous for the next round or founders. There's a lot of things there where, if the investor
NSG: is less personally invested and connected to you.
NSG: they're gonna look at your situation in the most ruthlessly objective sense that they can
NSG: that will potentially put you in a really difficult spot.
NSG: So there are examples of founders that have very successful aesthetic exits meaning on paper. It's announced, oh, so and so got acquired. Yay.
NSG: but when you ask the founder what they actually took home peanuts.
Esmaeil Sadeghi: Neil.
NSG: So, yeah.
Esmaeil Sadeghi: Yeah. So I'm living with Carrier for almost 15 years now, and sometimes we say we don't know each other very well, so I don't know. Within this few meetings this can be solved like how we should really understand, like this type of like situation with investors.
NSG: Okay. How do you gauge who to try.
Esmaeil Sadeghi: I would say, or even worse.
NSG: All right, Jake. I saw you on mute.
Jake Gutstein: Yeah, I I
Jake Gutstein: To a certain extent, a lot of this is in writing. So if they're an experienced investor, they're going to signal how much they trust you in what they have. You sign
Jake Gutstein: you'll essentially understand. And like, of course, if you have leverage, you'll be able to go against it. But if market conditions say, like the Us. Economy tanks, and all of a sudden liquidation, preferences and participating shares are like back on the table. Then, like, you actually want to start weighing those
Jake Gutstein: as conditions in the deal, I would look at side letters. Anything that's not traditional like, if you guys are raising? Is it just a standard safe or like? Are there other considerations at play that may mean that they got burned? You can talk to founders in their portfolio as well like do reference calls when it reaches that point to just make sure that they're good people to work with
Jake Gutstein: like when.
NSG: Yeah, to be clear. That's bullet number 4 here on this list that we're looking at.
Jake Gutstein: Oh, right. Yep. Yep.
Jake Gutstein: Yeah.
NSG: Cool. Okay, yeah. So I just want to emphasize that like, it's not enough to talk to portfolio companies that are obvious, or that the investor wants you to talk, to do the extra work, to understand who you're like getting involved with and on your cap table, and and sometimes, by the way like. I think David Cohen said this to us when he was with us a few weeks ago, right? Because this question came up, and he said, like sometimes there might be a negative thing said about a particular investor.
NSG: But the story is not so simple. Right? That's just one person's perspective. So it's important to round out your perspective and understanding of someone. Before you end up working with them. I do do have a running list of people that I actively discourage founders from doing business with.
NSG: It's not a super long list, but it's it's longer than I wish. You know the world worked as cause. There's some people who just are are either just bad people or they are taking advantage of founders when it comes to negotiations and terms.
NSG: So that's our job at techsart. Like to look out for you all for those types of situations.
NSG: So okay, so we talk about not sending blanket emails we talk, you know, about the Nda like that's pretty laughable when they ask Vcs assigned Ndas.
NSG: try to get to a decision maker as quickly as you can, but respectfully.
NSG: Let's see.
NSG: Yeah, I mean, this is all kind of goes without saying. And I feel like we've said a lot of this before. But yeah, if you have any questions about it.
Meg Hall: So the.
NSG: There's.
Meg Hall: Who else you're speaking with that one's kind of interesting. So like, once we sit once they say they're they're interested in being in, then you can say it, or like, when they have to say, like the I'm committed like, where at what point are you willing to disclose that this person is interested like you don't want to say that you're talking to them.
Jake Gutstein: If you have a term sheet.
NSG: Yeah, you want a commitment of some kind. So term sheets is usually when you can start to disclose those things.
Jake Gutstein: Hey? I got a term sheet from this person, so I'm checking on our process. Would love to see if you're still interested.
Meg Hall: But I mean, if we follow David Cohen's version, we don't get a term sheet until the very end. Right? So at that point we would just get say that, like they're committed.
Carlo Scaglia: But Dave, David also said, and I was gonna bring it up. But David was like. At the end of the session he said to us the
Carlo Scaglia: the investor like, Hey, is it cool? If we side to in the next meetings as a soft commitment?
Carlo Scaglia: And then he's like, Yeah, if the investor says, Yeah, that's cool. So I think if they say.
Carlo Scaglia: Yeah, then I guess we could do it.
NSG: Yeah.
NSG: But one thing I really wanna highlight here, guys, this is so important
NSG: is hide anything. Don't hide anything.
NSG: There are things about your business that you probably have either some embarrassment or concern about.
NSG: You know, being asked about being challenged by
NSG: you need to control the narrative. It's going to be so embarrassing. If in the middle of due diligence they find out something that they would have appreciated. You tell them at the beginning
NSG: you know what that information is I don't know.
NSG: but in your heart, like you can probably dig deep and ask yourself like if you're on their end. Is this information you would have wanted to know before you were going about the process of making an investment decision, because finding out later Will Erode trust immediately.
NSG: So really important, Andrew.
Andrew Fernandes: Yeah, what's the best way to
Andrew Fernandes: either raise these concerns or give them the space to raise the concerns, because you don't necessarily want to spend the limited time in the call, listing all the possible problems
Andrew Fernandes: and you want to tailor to the ones that they'd be most concerned about just in terms of phrasing. How would you approach that.
NSG: I I'm not thinking of a specific version of this. I'll think about it some more, Andrew, to give you a more specific answer. But what I'll say for now is
NSG: you? You'll feel it
NSG: like as a friend, right like like you almost think about it like if if you're talking to somebody like what would be the right thing to do or to say what's cool and what isn't cool and what isn't cool is, if
NSG: you know you're you're posturing, and you're saying something that is like very clever language to obfuscate something that you really don't want to acknowledge, because you think it's this negative signal about your business.
NSG: So you you kind of you will intuitively know as a founder when you're doing that, and if that ever is a temptation. Work with me, work with other people. Amongst the founders to try to figure out the right way to position it so that you're being more intellectually honest.
Jake Gutstein: You're going to feel it, too. Like the odds are the actual process of you incorporating this feedback is that you are going to screw up in this way in an investor call, and you will feel that the connection is broken. And then you're going to be like, oh, I got to answer that more effectively.
NSG: Yeah. And and unfortunately, you have to be really careful about this, because if you do it to the wrong person who's connected to all the right people. That reputation is gonna ripple.
NSG: This founder doesn't keep it, is is it? Straight up? They're not 100. And I called them out. And then they were kind of on their heels, and then they made something up where they they didn't tell me about this. Then we found out later. That's never a good sign.
NSG: See you later, Carla. All good. Thanks for coming. I know we have. Like, was it 5min left?
NSG: Make sure. Okay, let me let me let me blaze through this real quick, just really, aggressively, and then we'll wrap up so I'm not gonna read through anything that I think you all can reference later, when you look at this deck. So nothing particularly important to highlight here, just breakdown of what questions you can answer your initial meeting and afterwards
NSG: as far as getting momentum. We talk about building up Fomo and as far as like managing the process itself. It's really important to keep like exciting updates going like as
NSG: commitments come in as there's meaningful progress with the business. It's really cool to do like flash updates to investors or your latest commitments. Let them know like, Hey, this is really cool, like Alex. I remember what Chamber was like. We just got notion as a customer, and we wanted all of our stakeholders to know this is really exciting, and like, whenever there's a cool update like that, it keeps the momentum going, and also you can leverage your committed investors to help you close around because they'll be really excited to introduce you to other people. Now that they're committed
Jake Gutstein: That's somebody in the pipeline without a tactical update.
NSG: Exactly. We've gone through David Cohen's Loop strategy already, so you all are familiar with this twice over, now, but here's a reminder of it that breaks it down in a very simple, you know, single page.
NSG: and then, as far as like closing the deal you know, lay out the the process with next steps, just like Jake said, you know what are? What are the next steps here? How do we get to a yes, and then make sure you're always quick with it, with the scheduling of the follow meetings and the follow ups with the questions, clarifying things over, delivering on clarifying any questions that you were asked. You weren't sure you answered properly or fully.
NSG: and then, like you said, there's a pressure function around here with the percentage of the round that gets committed. So coming to Demo Day, for example, sometimes founders are like, we only have a little bit of space left, or we're already 50% committed. But that's also something that happens. Well, after the program, too.
NSG: Carla, were you gonna say something before you leave.
Carlo Scaglia: I was. Gonna say, bye.
NSG: Okay, that's cool. Bye.
NSG: See? You man, alright almost done so. Bad signals. You know. Lot of the times. There's no motion or momentum. It's a no, so just get to the no.
NSG: They're not engaged with you. They're kind of passively managing the process. You don't get past the to decision maker,
NSG: like these are a lot of the things that are clearly negative signals, not dissimilar from dating.
NSG: So I'm sure we can all relate to that, and then remember what David said about don't lie, don't set the price too early.
NSG: Don't ask for too much. You can always ask for more. You can always over subscribe, and then don't be so obsessed with valuation. I recommend doing the cap table math to understand what those outcomes are, and it'll help sober you up about what difference a 6 versus a 7 million dollar, you know, valuation could make down the road.
NSG: Reflective listening. Get make sure you know the conditions. Confirm verbally
NSG: and then ask for permission if you can name them later.
NSG: And then also the email follow up right afterwards. Jake walked us through this last night in his story, too.
NSG: same day you're following up
NSG: alright. So once you get the term sheet. Yay, you have steps to do to thank them, and kind of go through the next steps, and all that. There's a process for that, too.
NSG: But you know we'll we'll cross this bridge when we come to it, and then, as far as like negotiating the terms, once you get to that level where you're having those conversations. Make sure. You're doing it in writing right? A lot of the times. Getting into those spats verbally, can be really distracting and non effective, and this allows you to prepare more and be really thought through. And have people like me coach you through what the proper response would be to kind of get through that
NSG: and just understand that these are investors who are better at this than you. So you're gonna need to do extra work, and that's where tech source comes in to help you all be in the best possible position to get it done.
NSG: And then ask yourself. Are they the right investor? Are this the kind of person you want connected to your business for the rest of its life? It's super important, and it can go very wrong if you don't do your own due diligence on them.
NSG: Yeah. So just to close this out capital to me to an end at the end of the day. None of this is as important as you having a great business.
NSG: All of the advice I just told you for the past 90min could be ignored. If you have an awesome business. Dan Zaborotney, from nutrisense, who you all will meet soon, historically and notoriously goes. We sucked at fundraising, we bet, like all the stuff I just gave you advice on. He didn't do any of those things right, but they still raised a ton of money tens of millions of dollars because their business is so successful they could like kind of slop their way through the investment process because so many people wanted to talk to me. Get on their cap table.
NSG: I'm not impressed by how they show up for their fundraising tactics early on, but at the end of the day the results
NSG: are there. We have a successful business. We are investable. We'll deal with the details later about how to make sure we get better and show up with our investors. So
NSG: that's my story. I'm sticking to it. I know we're at time, so feel free to get out of here. But if anyone's willing to offer up a few bonus minutes, or Jake, if you're still here, I'm down to talk. But Titian Ming, Ming, thanks for coming. I hope we we did our job right. Thank you for helping me with this deck.
Tishin Donkersley - TS Education: That was awesome. Thank you so much. That was awesome.
NSG: Good. Thank you.
NSG: All right. Encore bonus hours.
NSG: Who wants to rap about fundraising some more? Encour. I know. I know. I know you're coming.
Ankur Toshniwal: I don't need that much time, but.
NSG: In the class. It's awesome.
Ankur Toshniwal: I've already spoke.
NSG: I'm a huge fan.
Ankur Toshniwal: So if anyone else has stuff, please go ahead. I more specific things. So.
NSG: I think whatever you ask is gonna help everyone else who's still here.
Ankur Toshniwal: Okay? Well, I guess. You, you had the thing on the slide which said, actually.
Ankur Toshniwal: I didn't you? It said, create a reason to wait as a don't don't create a reason to wait.
Ankur Toshniwal: is kind of the early conversation, saying, Hey, we're focused on building a good business right now. Not fundraising. Is that the same as that?
NSG: Yes.
NSG: yes, but but but I that's just the beginning, though, like I I think there's a unique and impressive version of that response for each of you. That goes a step further than what you just said. Right? The conceptually, yes. But like, get specific. Right? I'm executing this campaign. I've got this new product launch that we have coming up or like. There's something going on that's real that you're tangibly excited about that you can indicate as like, hey, once I get through this, we're gonna have a lot more interesting things to talk about and share.
Ankur Toshniwal: Yeah. So I I mean that I'm down to do that. But it kind of you actually specifically wrote in that slide which I I know every single thing you put on here is a guideline and is nuance. So that's why I'm trying to like like.
NSG: Sure.
Ankur Toshniwal: Pack it all up. But you actually specifically had that line saying, waiting for like a big partner to close, or something right, which.
NSG: Yeah.
Ankur Toshniwal: Kind of seem. And then that was a part of the don't section which was like feels.
NSG: Unless it's unless it's it's happening already.
NSG: unless it's happening like. So you have to be really careful if you signal a possibility of something, and then we meet with you like I I keep track of this. By the way, when I'm meeting with founders, and I know other Vcs. Do it, too. If you say you're gonna do something like, Oh, we have a goal of this, or we're gonna accomplish this, or this is coming up. I'm writing that down. And then when I see you in 2 weeks, 4 weeks, 6 weeks.
NSG: I'm pulling up those notes, and I'm going, hey? So how did that thing go that you said you were gonna do
NSG: right? So so you have to be really careful. And I would only recommend you offer that up if you feel like you have a 99% chance of it of it happening.
Ankur Toshniwal: Okay. Okay. Cool.
Jake Gutstein: There. There are artful ways to kind of work around it, right like, extend
Jake Gutstein: They don't live in your business right? So like, if you know that a smaller version of something on the road to something larger is going to go live, or something like that, you can package it in a compelling manner.
Ankur Toshniwal: Makes sense. I I was also curious about okay. Look, I,
Ankur Toshniwal: maybe every relationship between co-founders is different. So specifically, I think at least what we've what I've noticed so far. Andrew's on the line. He's also right. Next to me is, I think, you know, fundraising, and the the idea of fundraising at least gives Andrew energy as well, and gives me energy as well in a just different way.
Ankur Toshniwal: I know the responsibility is foundationally on the CEO. Is there?
Ankur Toshniwal: Is there a good way? Are there good ways and bad ways to get co-founders involved? Or basically non Ceos involved in the process that are additive and don't signal, hey, don't we? What I'm I don't want to create confusion. Investors mind of who to speak to
Ankur Toshniwal: at the same time, I wanna make sure that our team is, you know, getting energy from the process. If it's something that gives energy to the co-founder team member. I I'm trying to like, figure out what the best way to do that is, and might be something. We speak off offline, but.
NSG: Sure.
Ankur Toshniwal: Curious like, what are the good ways to kind of do that.
NSG: Did you.
Andrew Fernandes: Good job.
NSG: Go ahead, Andrew. Sorry. Go ahead.
Andrew Fernandes: Also just in terms of managing on course, time since he's already dedicated to tech and other things.
NSG: Yeah, the the tech piece is tricky. Right? So this is, this is
NSG: This is nuance for each company, and each of you will have a different situation. I'll give you a quick anecdote.
NSG: So Alex and Dan from nutrisense. Alex was technical, and he was the CEO,
NSG: and when they went out to fundraise. They made a strategic choice for Dan to be the one to fundraise, and he was the one leading it and driving it.
NSG: as you know. Now, as you might recall, Dan's the CEO.
NSG: So what ended up happening is that he ended up being the guy going out there getting all these stakeholders getting the business going and understanding all the intricacies of it, and it got to the point where people are like, well, where's Alex? Oh, he's running the company well, so usually, for the most part, if you're trying to raise capital, CEO is the one leading the charge, and you will get your co-founder meaningfully involved, because the investors will mandate that they spend time with both of you.
NSG: But, Jake, you may have a different experience or perspective. There.
Jake Gutstein: I've known founding teams to successfully pitch companies together, or pitch for fundraising together, and so like, I think that it is a stylistic thing. But you have to understand that your core responsibility is to the business
Jake Gutstein: like there's nothing. I'm the only one that typically pitches early in the company. But like, yeah, again, I know people who
Jake Gutstein: do have 2 people taking calls with Vcs.
Ankur Toshniwal: Yeah, I mean, as far as I'm concerned, I guess I'm I'm ready to do it. I'm excited to do it. I'm pumped to like about about the process in general. It is. Yeah. Time. Management is one thing I don't know. Maybe maybe it's something we we just chat about.
Ankur Toshniwal: How far yeah.
Jake Gutstein: You're the CEO. And then Andrew's CTO.
Ankur Toshniwal: Cro.
Jake Gutstein: 0 got it?
Jake Gutstein: yeah, you just like, I think again, is the business. Are you guys dedicating what you need to for the business to succeed. If yes, then
Jake Gutstein: divvy up the remainder, and like you can talk from there. But if no, if there's a core responsibility to the business that will fall through like you should really think twice about it.
Ankur Toshniwal: Alright cool. Thank you. Well, I'll catch up. We'll catch up. It's obviously specific. So.
NSG: What else we got.
NSG: I I get it. Y'all just wanna hang out. I like this. I miss hanging out, too.
NSG: I should have brought my disco ball.
Ankur Toshniwal: Andrews will come out on Friday, I'm sure.
NSG: Is that?
NSG: Is it only Friday that it happens.
Ankur Toshniwal: He said. I think it's Friday to Saturday.
Ankur Toshniwal: No, there we go too early. Thursday, 2, 40.
NSG: A lot.
NSG: Yes, there it is. This is. This is the Andrew. I know this is good. I can hear the Frank Sinatra
NSG: on its way.
NSG: Love it. Oh, man, okay, Vivian, Chris, you all good!
NSG: Did we do our job for this session? Are you guys satisfied with what we talked about.
Vivian: Yeah, I'm I'm not. I haven't been putting a focus on fundraising. So it's a.
NSG: Don't have to.
Vivian: Yeah.
NSG: And you don't have to put a focus on it. I want that to be clear, like, I'm offering this up now because it's timely, because we're going into. We'll lead in the month 3 fairly soon, and
NSG: you should know
NSG: I know this. But like I don't want you to change your priorities. If this doesn't fit in it right now, it's this won't go anywhere. This process will be true. 6 months from now.
Vivian: Yeah, I mean, I think, like the wake. It was a bit of a wake up call at that at the very beginning
Vivian: about setting up the calls, for, you know, progress track post techstars, so that.
NSG: Look. All I'm saying is, I I got this guy, Don Cantrell, that I really want to connect you to Vivian cause like that. That is, that is one of your you're gonna love him, and like, I know, he can help.
Vivian: I think I'm like, I think I'm ready. So I'm just gonna box you up.
NSG: Feels like the kind of person that might even be an angel investor for you. That's what that's why I'm encouraging it so much like he's a friendly. He's dope. He's been an eir for us. He's 1 of my good friends like we go motorcycle riding and stuff like this is the guy like he just got a big job at GM. From Amazon. So.
Vivian: Okay.
NSG: Let's do it.
Vivian: Okay. Sounds good.
NSG: Alright sweet. Okay, team. Well, we'll see you.
NSG: Oh, we we don't. Do we have anything tomorrow.
Chloe Lannert: Financial model office hours with Steven from.
NSG: 14.
Chloe Lannert: Castor, sign up for your slots.
NSG: Okay. Sounds awesome, delicious, great!
NSG: No, it's fine, cool, alright. Well, I'll see you all next week then, unless I hear from you on Boxer before now and then.
Vivian: Good.
Ankur Toshniwal: Thanks. Jake again.
Vivian: Thank you.